Welcome to SCALE's documentation!
==================================
Side-Channel Attack & Leakage Evaluation (SCALE) is a tool-box that
contains state-of-the-art tools for side-channel evaluation. Its focus is on
providing efficient implementations of analysis methods widely used by the
side-channel community and maintaining a flexible and simple interface.

The `SASCAGraph` is a central component of SCALE. It allows to express in a
`.txt` what is the implementation to evaluate. It details what are the secrets
to recover (e.g., keys), what variables must be profiled and how they interact
with each other. 

For efficiency, SCALE uses a custom Rust library which enables efficient
serialization and machine specific code while providing a userfriendly Python3
package. When applicable, it uses one-pass algorithms (e.g., `SNR`) which
allows to estimate metric / models directly when the data is collected without
requiring to store the traces.

Develop
=======
Install the `pipenv` tool from PyPI, then run `pipenv install` to initialize
the development environment. Running 
```pipenv run python setup.py develop```
builds the native code and makes SCALE importable in the environment.

Warning: this builds the native code in debug mode, which makes it very slow.
For production usage, build and install the wheel using ``pipenv run setup.py bdist_wheel``, then ``pip install path/to/the/wheel``.

Test
----
In the envirnment, the tests can be exected with `pytest`. Running ``pipenv run pytest`` will test functionality of SCALE. Please run the tests before pushing new code.

Documentation
-------------
The documentations can be build by running ``pipenv run make -C docs html``.


Documentation
=============
Once the `pipenv` is set up, the documentation can be generated by running
`pipenv run make -C docs html`. The documentation is the generated in the
directory `docs/_build/html/`.

About us
========
SCALE has been initiated by Olivier Bronchain during his PhD at Crypto Group,
UCLouvain, Belgium. It has already been used by many other researcher at
UCLouvain which contributed either directly or by constructive feedbacks. 

Contributions and Issues
========================
We are happy to take any suggestion for features would be useful for
side-channel evaluators. For such suggestion, contributions or issues, please
contact Olivier Bronchain at `olivier.bronchain@uclouvain.be
<olivier.bronchain@uclouvain.be>`_.

Publications
============

SCALE has been used in various publications, let us know if you used it:

1. "Mode-Level vs. Implementation-Level Physical Security in Symmetric
   Cryptography: A Practical Guide Through the Leakage-Resistance Jungle", D.
   Bellizia, O. Bronchain, G. Cassiers, V. Grosso, Chun Guo, C. Momin, O.
   Pereira, T. Peters, F.-X. Standaert at CRYPTO2020.
2. "Exploring Crypto-Physical Dark Matter and Learning with Physical Rounding
   Towards Secure and Efficient Fresh Re-Keying", S. Duval, P. Méaux, C. Momin,
   F.-X. Standaert in TCHES2021 - Issue 1.
3. "Breaking Masked Implementations with Many Shares on 32-bit Software
   Platforms or When the Security Order Does Not Matter". O. Bronchain, F.-X.
   Standaert in TCHES2021 - Issue 3.
4. "Improved Leakage-Resistant Authenticated Encryption based on Hardware AES
   Coprocessors". O. Bronchain, C. Momin, T. Peters, F.-X. Standaert in
   TCHES2021 - Issue 3.
